[SSL/TLS] Bring in PQC content to Dev Docs (#18165)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/ssl/post-quantum-cryptography/index.mdx

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Post-quantum cryptography (PQC)
sidebar:
  order: 9
  label: About PQC
  group:
    label: Post-quantum
head: []
description: Consider information about how Cloudflare is implementing post-quantum cryptography to protect you against store now, decrypt later.
---

For years, Cloudflare has been researching and [writing about post quantum](https://blog.cloudflare.com/tag/post-quantum/).

To protect you against the risk of [store now, decrypt later](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvest_now,_decrypt_later), and considering all the [connections](#three-connections-in-the-life-of-a-request) that take place when your website or application is on Cloudflare, we have deployed and are actively expanding the use of post-quantum hybrid key agreement.

:::caution[TLS 1.3]
Post-quantum key agreements are only supported in protocols based on TLS 1.3 (including HTTP/3) and are disabled for websites in [FIPS mode](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/http-policies/tls-decryption/#fips-compliance).
:::

## Three building blocks of TLS

> For a TLS handshake to happen, three types of encryption have to be in place:

Reviewer: The currently proposed wording is somewhat misleading, what about:
```suggestion
Before TLS can protect your communications, three cryptographic algorithms have to be agreed on during the TLS handshake:
```

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Post-quantum cryptography (PQC)
sidebar:
  order: 9
  label: About PQC
  group:
    label: Post-quantum
head: []

> description: Get an overview of how Cloudflare is implementing post-quantum cryptography to protect you against store now, decrypt later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Get an overview of how Cloudflare is deploying post-quantum cryptography to protect you against store now, decrypt later.
```

---

> For years, Cloudflare has been researching and [writing about post-quantum](https://blog.cloudflare.com/tag/post-quantum/).

Reviewer 2: Just making this a bit more concrete.
```suggestion
Post-quantum cryptography (PQC) refers to cryptographic algorithms that have been designed to resist attacks from [quantum computers](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/quantum/what-is-quantum-computing/). Cloudflare has been researching and [writing about post-quantum](https://blog.cloudflare.com/tag/post-quantum/) since 2017.
```

> To protect you against the risk of [store now, decrypt later](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvest_now,_decrypt_later), and considering all the [connections](#three-connections-in-the-life-of-a-request) that take place when your website or application is on Cloudflare, we have deployed and are actively expanding the use of [post-quantum hybrid key agreement](#hybrid-key-agreement).

Reviewer 2: We've used both "store" and "harvest" in the past, but "harvest" seems to have gained broader traction.
```suggestion
To protect you against the risk of [harvest now, decrypt later](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvest_now,_decrypt_later), and considering all the [connections](#three-connections-in-the-life-of-a-request) that take place when your website or application is on Cloudflare, we have deployed and are actively expanding the use of [post-quantum hybrid key agreement](#hybrid-key-agreement).
```

:::caution[TLS 1.3]
Cloudflare post-quantum key agreements are only supported in protocols based on TLS 1.3 (including HTTP/3) and are disabled for websites in [FIPS mode](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/http-policies/tls-decryption/#fips-compliance).
:::

## Three building blocks of TLS

Before TLS can protect your communications, three cryptographic algorithms have to be agreed on during the [TLS handshake](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/what-happens-in-a-tls-handshake/):

- **Symmetric ciphers:** Algorithms used to encrypt and decrypt data, ensuring confidentiality and integrity (such as `CHACHA20-POLY1305`).
- **Key agreement:** A cryptographic protocol that allows client and server to safely agree on a shared key (such as `ECDH`).
- **Signature algorithms:** Cryptographic algorithms used to generate the digital signatures in TLS certificates (such as `RSA` and `ECDSA`).

> As explained in our [blog post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/pq-2024/#two-migrations), the first, most urgent migration has to do with key agreement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As explained in our [blog post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/pq-2024/#two-migrations), it is urgent to migrate key agreement to post-quantum algorithms as soon as possible to protect against an adversary capable of storing today's encrypted communications until some time in the future when they can gain access to a sufficiently powerful quantum computer with which they can decrypt.
```

### Hybrid key agreement

> With TLS 1.3, [X25519](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curve25519) - an Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) protocol - is the current standard used in key agreement. However, its security can be easily broken by quantum computers using [Shor's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shor%27s_algorithm).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With TLS 1.3, [X25519](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curve25519) - an Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) protocol - is the most commonly used algorithm in key agreement. However, its security can be easily broken by quantum computers using [Shor's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shor%27s_algorithm).
```

Cloudflare has deployed the following hybrid key agreements:

- [X25519MLKEM768](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-kwiatkowski-tls-ecdhe-mlkem/) (Recommended)
    - TLS identifier: `0x11ec`
- [X25519Kyber768Draft00](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-tls-westerbaan-xyber768d00/) (Obsolete)
    - TLS identifier: `0x6399`

A hybrid key agreement lays the groundwork as more and more [clients](#1-visitor-to-cloudflare) adopt post-quantum cryptography, while also maintaining the current security provided by X25519. It is a safer path in case of an unexpected breakthrough that renders all variants of ML-KEM insecure.

## Three connections in the life of a request

```mermaid
flowchart LR
        accTitle: Three connections - from visitor to Cloudflare to origin server
        accDescr: Diagram showing connections for an uncached request.
        A[Visitor]
        subgraph Cloudflare
        X[(Cloudflare <br />service A)]
				B[(Cloudflare <br />service B)]
        end
        C[(Origin server)]

        A --1--> X
				X --2--> B
        B --3--> C
```

### 1. Visitor to Cloudflare

> As of [October 2022](https://blog.cloudflare.com/post-quantum-for-all/), all websites and APIs served through Cloudflare over TLS 1.3 support post-quantum hybrid key agreement. However, the connection is only post-quantum secured if the client also supports post-quantum cryptography.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of [October 2022](https://blog.cloudflare.com/post-quantum-for-all/), all websites and APIs served through Cloudflare over TLS 1.3 support post-quantum hybrid key agreement. However, the connection is only post-quantum secured if the client also supports PQC.
```

Refer to [Post-quantum cryptography support](/ssl/post-quantum-cryptography/pqc-support/) for a list of browsers and other clients that are compatible with hybrid key agreements.

### 2. Internal connections

> As announced in [September 2023](https://blog.cloudflare.com/post-quantum-cryptography-ga/), most internal connections for the different Cloudflare products and systems have been upgraded to use post-quantum cryptography.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As announced in [September 2023](https://blog.cloudflare.com/post-quantum-cryptography-ga/), most internal connections for Cloudflare's products and systems have been upgraded to use PQC.
```

Reviewer 2: Doesn't have to be in the first iteration of these docs, but it would be great to have a list of exceptions, or list of Cloudflare-internal services that fully support PQ key agreement, since the natural question for someone reading this is "why most and not all"?

Author: Good point! Raised PCX-14742 to track adding that.

> As of [October 2022](https://blog.cloudflare.com/post-quantum-for-all/), all websites and APIs served through Cloudflare over TLS 1.3 support post-quantum hybrid key agreement. However, the connection is only post-quantum secured if the client also supports PQC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of [October 2022](https://blog.cloudflare.com/post-quantum-for-all/), all websites and APIs served through Cloudflare over TLS 1.3 support post-quantum hybrid key agreement. However, the connection is only post-quantum secured if the client also supports PQC. See [Cloudflare Radar](https://radar.cloudflare.com/adoption-and-usage#post-quantum-encryption-adoption) for current statistics on PQ encryption adoption in requests to Cloudflare.
```

Reviewer 2: We could maybe add this link to Radar higher up, but it should definitely be here somewhere!
